Gulliver's Travels by Jonathan Swift. Young Adult Ailey Readers 2012
Chapter 1
I arrive in Lilliput. Myself and my family.
I decide to travel. Disaster at sea. Lilliput.
My name is Lemuel Gulliver, and this is my story.
My father came from the north of England, and I was his middle son.
I had two older brothers and two younger brothers.
We didn't have much money, but my father sent me to Cambridge University.
I was 14 years old. I was very lucky.
I studied hard, but after three years, it was time for me to start work.
I went to London to work for a famous doctor.
In my free time, I studied more.
I studied navigation, mathematics, and medicine.
Why? Because I wanted to be a doctor, and I wanted to travel.
I finished my studies, and I found a job as a doctor on a ship called the swallow.
I traveled for three and a half years with the swallow.
After these three and a half years, I was tired, so I decided to stay in London.
I found a small house, and I found some patience.
I found a wife. Her name was Mary, and she had 400 pounds.
But life was difficult on dry land.
I was a good doctor, but I was too honest.
The rich doctors in London were not very honest. They made a lot of money from their patients.
They sold a lot of medicines to them. I didn't want to be like them. I had no choice. I had to go back to sea.
For the next six years, I traveled to the East and West Indies. I made a lot of money.
On the ship, I spent my free time reading. On dry land, I watched new people and learned new languages.
I had enough money to stay at home with my wife and family. I stayed in London with them, and I was happy.
But three years later, I had money problems again. I looked for another ship and found the antelope.
Captain William Pritchard gave me a job. I was a ship's doctor again.
The antelope left from Bristol on May 14, 1699. Our destination was the south seas.
The journey was comfortable until we met a terrible storm. The ship was in danger from the strong wind.
We went up and down and left and right. Twelve men died in the storm.
Suddenly, the ship hit rocks near Van Demon's land. Disaster. The ship broke in two.
Six of us jumped into a small boat. We tried to move away from the ship, but it was hard.
We were not far from land when the wind hit our small boat. Suddenly, I was in the water.
I never saw my five friends again. I swam and swam for hours and hours until I was so tired that I couldn't swim.
Then I relaxed. I will die here, I thought. But what was this?
Suddenly, I could feel land under my feet. I felt stronger now. Now I could walk.
I had to walk for a long way before I arrived at the shore.
It wasn't very windy now and I could see the sun. It was about eight o'clock in the evening.
I walked along the beach looking for houses or some people. I was tired and it was very hot.
It was November. November the 5th, I think. But that was summer in the south seas.
I decided to sit down. Then I lay down. The sand was warm and soft. I went to sleep.
I slept for hours. I think about nine hours.
When I woke up, it was light. I decided to get up and look for help.
I couldn't move my legs. I tried to move my arms, but I couldn't. I tried to move my head, but I couldn't.
The reason soon became clear. Ropes. Thousands of little ropes were over my legs and my arms.
The ropes were everywhere, even in my hair. The sun was very hot and its light hurt my eyes.
Then something moved on my leg. It moved across my body until I could see it.
It was a little man, about six inches tall.
Now I could feel another forty little men walking all over me.
I shouted. They ran away. They were afraid, but so was I.
They soon came back. One of them came up to my face again and shouted,
HIKI NŌ DIKŌ!
His friends repeated the words. I didn't understand their language.
I tried to move. I broke the little ropes on my left arm and tried to catch one of the little men.
They ran away again, and then I heard a shout, TOLL GOOFONAC!
Suddenly I felt a terrible pain in my left hand. They're throwing arrows, I thought.
Some arrows went into my hand, some into my body. I tried to free my hair. More terrible pain.
Then the arrows stopped, so I tried to free my right arm. The arrows started again.
I must stay still, I thought. I can wait until night. These people are too small to keep me here.
I was right. The arrows stopped again.
Now I could hear a lot of noise. There were more little men.
What are they doing, I thought? They're building something.
Again, I was right. Now I could see a platform made of wood.
The platform was near my head on the right. After an hour, they stopped building.
Some of the little men cut the hair on my left, so I could move my head.
I turned my head to the right. I could see four of the little men on the platform.
They want to talk to me, I thought.
One of the men was older and taller than the others. He started to speak, but I couldn't understand.
Now I was quite hungry. I put my fingers on my mouth. The man understood.
A few minutes later, I felt hundreds of the little men on my body. They had food for me.
They put some in my mouth. I ate and ate. Then they brought something delicious to drink.
I drank and drank. The little men were so happy that they danced on my body.
Heketa degull! They shouted.
Then a very important man arrived. He had a letter from the Emperor.
I understood from his hands that the Emperor wanted to see me. I had to go to the capital city.
I also understood that I wasn't free. Suddenly I felt tired.
Why? Sleeping medicine in the wine, they told me later. I slept for about eight hours.
When I woke up, I was in a strange cart on the way to the capital. It took 500 engineers, 900 strong men and 1500 horses to take me there.
They were very clever people. We arrived at the capital two days later.
The Emperor was there to meet me.
This is your new home, he said. He pointed to an old church. Some of the men put new ropes on my legs, but now I could walk a little.
The next morning, the Emperor came to see me again with his family. With him were carts of food and drink.
The Emperor was taller than all his countrymen and his face was strong. He was about 28 years old.
He spoke to me, but I couldn't understand. I tried English, Dutch, Latin, French, Spanish and Italian.
No one could understand me, and after about two hours, they went away.
I sat outside the church, watching some soldiers. Suddenly I felt an arrow near my eye.
A group of six little men fired more arrows at me. The soldiers were angry with the little men.
I picked up the six men and put five of them in my pocket. I put the other man near my mouth.
Now the soldiers were worried. I put the little man down and he ran away.
I don't eat little men, I said, smiling.
One by one, I pulled the other little men out of my pocket and they all ran away.
The soldiers were all very happy indeed. The little people began to trust me.
After about two weeks, 600 beds arrived at my new house. The little men put them all together to make one big bed.
After that, I was very comfortable.
Everybody in Lilliput now knew about me. Rich people, lazy people and curious people all came to see me.
The emperor often came to see me too. He also talked to all the important people in the land. Some people were worried.
My food was very expensive and I was dangerous. They wanted to kill me. The emperor said no.
He remembered the six little men who fired arrows.
Find me the best teachers, he said. This man must learn our language.
After about three weeks, I could speak the language quite well.
The emperor sometimes came to give me conversation practice.
Every time he came, I asked him for my freedom.
Be patient, he always said.
I was now very comfortable with my bed, the language and some new clothes.
When the men brought me my new clothes, they made a list of all my things.
Later that day, the emperor came to visit. He had thousands of soldiers with him.
I want to take your sword, he said.
I pulled out my sword slowly. The sunlight caught the sword.
The light hurt the soldier's eyes and they were all afraid.
I put the sword on the ground and hundreds of soldiers took it away.
After that, I gave my other things to the emperor, my money, my comb and my notebook.
The soldiers took them all away.
I was lucky. When they made the list of my things, they didn't find my secret pocket.
In that pocket were my glasses and a pocket telescope.
I didn't tell the emperor about them. I wanted to keep them for myself.
Chapter Two, My Life in Lilliput
Lilliput, Freedom, War with Blafuscu, Escape to Blafuscu, I returned to England.
People in Lilliput seemed more friendly now.
Boys and girls played in my hair and they called me Man Mountain.
The horses weren't scared of me now.
People enjoyed coming to see me. I became a tourist attraction.
One day, the emperor asked me to stand up with my feet apart.
Then he told his soldiers to march under me.
Everyone enjoyed the parade.
Now I will give you your freedom, the emperor said.
But there are some rules. In fact, there are nine rules.
If you agree, you will be free.
The emperor gave me a piece of paper.
Rules. One, the man mountain must not leave Lilliput without permission.
Two, he must not come into the city without permission.
Three, he must stay on the roads.
Four, he must be careful. Our people are very small.
Five, he must carry urgent messages for the emperor.
Six, he must help us in our war with Blafuscu.
Seven, he must help us build new houses.
Eight, he must make a map of our country.
Nine, he can have food and drink equal to 1,724 Lilliputians.
I had no problem with the rules. I asked a friend about the calculation for food and drink.
The best mathematicians in the country decided this, he said.
They calculated your height. You are exactly 12 times taller than us.
Your volume is therefore 12 cubed. As you know, 12 cubed equals 1,724.
I checked the mathematics. 12 times 12 times 12 equals 1,724.
You are very clever people, I answered, and very good at economics.
About two weeks later, I had a visitor. His name was Reldresal and he was an important man.
He sat in my hand and we talked. He told me about some of the problems in Lilliput.
He was worried about political differences. He was also worried about war, war with Blafuscu.
The biggest problem, he said, is eggs.
Eggs, I asked, surprised. Yes, eggs, big Indians and little Indians.
I was confused. What are big Indians and little Indians?
Everyone in Lilliput has boiled eggs for breakfast.
In the past, everyone cut their boiled egg at the big end. They were big Indians.
Then an emperor cut his finger. He made a law. Everyone had to cut their boiled egg at the little end.
We became little Indians. Some people changed, but other people didn't.
There were protests. Some big Indians left Lilliput.
Today, there are still problems. The emperor of Blafuscu helps the big Indians.
So, we are at war with Blafuscu. About eggs.
Can I help? I asked.
I hope so, replied Reldrasal, sadly.
The emperor of Blafuscu has a lot of ships. He has more than us, and the ships are ready to attack us.
Let me speak to the emperor, I said. I had an idea.
The empire of Blafuscu is very near to Lilliput.
The channel between the two countries is less than a mile wide, and the water is not very deep.
Before I went to see the emperor, I went to the beach.
I looked at the Blafuscu ships through my pocket telescope. There were about 50 ships.
I went quickly to the palace. I told the emperor my idea, and he was very happy indeed.
I went home to prepare some small ropes.
The next morning, I went to the shore. I took off my coat and my shoes and swam across the channel.
When I got near to the emperor of Blafuscu's ships, his soldiers were scared.
Some of them jumped into the water. Some of them fired arrows at me, and I was worried about my eyes.
Then I remembered my glasses and put them on. My job was very easy.
I put ropes on all the emperor of Blafuscu's ships. Then I pulled them across the channel to Lilliput.
The emperor of Lilliput was very happy. He gave me a special reward. I was a nardak, like a lord, dear reader.
The emperor was so happy that he decided to send me to Blafuscu again.
You can kill all the big Indians, he said.
Everyone will cut their eggs from the little end, everyone in the world. I will be emperor of the whole world.
No, that's not right, I shouted. I can't help you. I don't want to kill people.
I don't want to kill people because of eggs.
The emperor was surprised, and then he was angry.
Don't trust the emperor, my friend said later that evening.
Some of the emperor's friends are angry with you. You are a nardak, and they want to be nardaks.
They will say bad things about you. The emperor will change.
I'll be very careful. You can't always trust emperors, I said.
A few weeks later, the most important Blafuscu's came to Lilliput.
We must end the war, they said to the emperor. We don't want to fight anymore. It's time for us to be friends.
The emperor of Lilliput said yes.
The emperor of Blafuscu had to pay a lot of money, but the war was over.
There was a big dinner to celebrate the end of the war.
At the dinner, I met the emperor of Blafuscu. I liked him, and I talked to him for a long time.
I was lucky. He was very important to me later.
Now that I was a nardak, life was different. I didn't build houses now.
I had time to find out more about Lilliput.
I talked to a lot of people, and I learned to write Lilliputian. This was very difficult.
Lilliputian writing is not from the left to the right like the Europeans.
It is not from the right to the left like Arabic writers.
It is diagonal, from one corner of the paper to the other.
There are many other differences. For example, Lilliputians believe that the earth is flat.
They also have some very strict laws.
I lived very well in Lilliput. I had 300 cooks, 20 waiters, and lots and lots of other servants.
People began to talk. They said I was very expensive.
Many of the emperor's friends were angry with me.
They began to talk to the emperor. My friend was right. The emperor of Lilliput began to change.
He didn't want to fight for us, one said.
He talked to the emperor of Blevver School, said another.
He wants to live in Blevver School, said a third man.
Oh no, you're right, said the emperor. He will fight against us. We must kill him.
Later that night, my good friend came to see me.
You must leave Lilliput, he said.
I know, I answered. It's too dangerous for me here. We made a plan.
That night, I said goodbye to my Lilliputian friend. I swam to Blevver School.
I took a ship and put my things in it.
I pulled the ship across the channel with me.
The people of Blevver School were very pleased to see me.
They sent a message to the emperor of Blevver School.
Almost immediately, the emperor and his wife arrived at the shore.
The people of Blevver School were not scared of me.
The emperor was very kind to me, but there was one problem.
There was no house for me in Blevver School, so I slept outside.
Three days after my arrival, I went for a walk.
I went to the northeast of the island. I saw something in the sea.
Was it a boat? I took off my coat and shoes and swam to it.
It was a boat, an empty boat, and it was my size.
I swam back to the shore and went immediately to the city.
I asked for a meeting with the emperor. He was happy to see me.
Your Majesty, I began. I need your help.
I will help you if I can," he answered.
Thank you, Your Majesty. I need twenty ships and three thousand men.
The emperor was surprised. Why?
There is a large boat in the sea in the northeast.
I need your help to bring it here. I can use the boat to return to my country.
The emperor was very kind. He gave me the ships and the men.
We brought the boat back to Blevver School.
Before I left, the emperor received a letter from Lilliput.
The emperor of Lilliput was very, very angry.
Send the man mountain back to Lilliput, he wrote.
The emperor of Blevver School sent a letter back.
I'm very sorry, he wrote, but I cannot send him back to you.
The man mountain is very kind. He is a peaceful man.
He stopped the war between us.
The emperor showed me his letter. He asked me to stay in Blevver School.
I will protect you, he said.
No, I must leave, I answered.
The emperor helped me. He gave me food and drink for the journey.
He also gave me some money.
I took some of the little animals with me to show people at home.
I wanted to take some of the little men with me too, but the emperor said no.
On the 24th of September, 1701 at 6 in the morning, I left Blevver School.
My journey was very comfortable.
The first day, the weather was good.
I stopped near a small island and slept for a few hours.
The next day was the same.
On the third day, at about three o'clock in the afternoon, I saw a ship.
To my surprise, the ship was English.
I reached the ship about two hours later.
The captain was a very kind man.
Where are you going? I asked.
England, he answered. We are returning from Japan.
Everyone on the ship was curious about my story.
They didn't believe that the people on Lilliput were so small.
You're mad, they said.
Let me show you something, I answered.
I showed them my little animals.
Now they believed me.
The journey was very comfortable and we soon arrived home.
I made a lot of money with my little animals.
I took them to markets in London and I showed them to people.
People paid a lot to see them.
Then I sold them for a hundred pounds.
Now I was rich.
I stayed with my wife and family and I bought a new house.
But I didn't want to stay in England. I wanted to travel.
I gave my wife fifteen hundred pounds.
I said goodbye to her, my son and my daughter.
We were all very sad.
I left England again.
The name of my ship was the adventure.
I will tell you all about my adventures on the adventure in the next chapter.
Chapter 3
My Journey to Broading Nag
I go back to sea.
I arrive at the land of giants.
I become a tourist attraction.
I live with the king and queen.
On the 20th of June, 1702, I left England on the adventure.
We had a very good journey south and spent the winter at the Cape of Good Hope.
In the spring, we sailed again.
We passed Madagascar and sailed towards the Moluca Islands.
The weather was very calm.
Too calm.
Captain Nicholas was a very good sailor.
He understood weather.
There will be a terrible storm tomorrow, a monsoon, he said one day.
He was right.
The storm continued for days.
No one knew where we were.
We had lots of food, but we didn't have much water.
We started to look for land.
On the 16th of June, 1703, we saw land.
Some of us got into a small boat and went towards the shore.
When we arrived, we started to look for water.
We went in different directions.
I didn't see any people, and I didn't find any water.
I was tired, so I started to go back to the boat.
When I got back to the shore, I couldn't see the boat.
Then I saw it, at sea, moving quickly.
Behind it, there was a very tall man, a giant.
He tried, but couldn't catch the boat.
I ran in the opposite direction.
I ran for miles.
I arrived at a field.
The field was full of wheat, but it was very, very tall.
Suddenly another giant man appeared, then another, then a woman.
There were seven of them.
What are they doing, I thought?
They're farmers.
Oh no, they're cutting the wheat.
I ran and ran, but the farmers came nearer.
I stopped, very tired.
My wife, I thought, my poor wife and my poor children.
Why did I leave England?
I don't want to die here.
I thought about Lilliput and the little people.
They were scared of me.
Now I was scared of someone much bigger than me.
At that very moment, I saw a foot.
No! Help! Stop!
I shouted loudly.
The farmer stopped.
He looked at the ground in front of him.
Then he saw me.
He looked at me for a while.
I understood his thoughts.
I looked like this when I see a strange animal.
When it hurt me, I think.
After a while, he picked me up carefully.
He held me between his thumb and a finger.
I was scared.
I was very high in the air.
Don't drop me!
I shouted.
Ouch! You're hurting me!
He seemed to understand.
The farmer put me into his pocket.
He walked towards his friends.
Look at this, I think, he said.
I didn't understand the language, but I could guess.
The farmer put me on the ground.
His friends sat down in a circle.
They watched me.
I tried to talk to them.
I tried many different languages.
They couldn't really hear me, and they couldn't understand.
The farmers tried to talk to me, but the noise was very loud.
It hurt my ears.
After a while, the farmer carried me to his house.
He was very careful.
He called his wife.
She was scared and ran away.
She came back after a minute or two and was very kind to me.
It was lunchtime, and she put a very big dish onto the table.
The family came to eat.
They were very curious.
In total, there were the farmer and his wife, their three children, and an old grandmother.
The farmer's wife gave me some food and drink.
Suddenly, a giant cat jumped up to sit on the wife's knees.
I was scared for a moment, but I think the cat was more afraid of me.
After the meal, the nurse came into the room with the farmer's enormous baby.
This was a terrible moment.
The baby saw me and immediately picked me up.
He put me into his mouth.
I was very lucky.
The farmer's wife pulled my legs and I was free.
Then the farmer's wife took me upstairs and put me into a bedroom.
She locked the door.
I slept for about two hours.
When I woke up, I looked around the room.
Then I saw them, two enormous rats.
They wanted to eat me.
I took out my sword and killed the first one.
The second ran away.
The farmer's wife came in at that moment and saved me.
I liked the farmer's daughter very much.
She was nine years old and about 40 feet tall.
She made a little bed for me.
She also made seven little shirts for me.
She was my teacher, too.
Very quickly, I began to understand their language.
She called me Grildrig, little man.
Everyone in the family then called me Grildrig.
Soon, everyone in the country called me Grildrig.
Her name was Glumdow Klitch, and she was very, very kind to me.
Glumdow Klitch stayed with me all the time I was in Broading Nag.
Everyone in the village knew about me.
I was a strange animal, just like a human, but very small.
When visitors came to the house, the farmer put me on the table.
I spoke to the people in their language.
One visitor made a suggestion to the farmer.
Put him in a box and take him to the market.
People will pay to see him, he said.
Glumdow Klitch was afraid.
Don't hurt him, she said.
The next day, the farmer put me in a box to take me to the market.
Glumdow Klitch came with us.
The journey was uncomfortable in my little box.
When we arrived at the village, the farmer found a room at a hotel.
He brought people to see me.
Glumdow Klitch asked me questions and I answered in their language.
A school boy threw a peanut at me.
It didn't hit me. I was very lucky.
The farmer was very happy.
He decided to take me to all the markets in Broading Nag.
Traveling was very difficult for me and very uncomfortable.
I became ill.
The farmer was not worried.
I must sell him before he dies, he thought.
Luckily, a message came from the Queen.
She wanted to see me immediately so we went to the palace.
She was very kind.
Where are you from? She asked.
England, I replied.
And why did you come to Broading Nag?
I told her about my travels.
The Queen was very interested.
She decided to buy me.
How much must I give you? She asked the farmer.
A thousand gold pieces he answered.
Your Majesty, I said.
Yes, Grildrig?
I have one question.
Can Glumdow Klitch come too? She is my nurse and my teacher.
Glumdow Klitch was happy, the Queen was happy, and the farmer was happy.
He was rich, and his daughter lived in the royal palace.
One day, the Queen took me to see the king.
He was surprised.
Is that your new pet? He asked.
What is it?
He's not an animal, she answered.
Listen!
The Queen asked me some questions, and I answered in her language.
The king was interested in my story too.
He called Glumdow Klitch.
Is his story true? He asked.
Yes, she answered.
At first, the king was not sure.
Perhaps I was a clockwork toy.
So he called the three most intelligent people in broadening nag.
They looked at me, and they talked to me.
He isn't an animal. He isn't fast, and he can't climb trees, one said.
He isn't a man, said another. He's too small.
He's a freak, a freak of nature, they all said.
Your Majesty! I shouted. I'm a man.
I come from a country called England.
In England, there are millions of men and women like me.
In my country, the trees and the animals are in proportion to us.
The three intelligent people laughed at me.
The king was a fair man. He was still interested in my story.
Look after him, he said to the queen.
Give him food. Build a house for him. I like him.
The queen called a carpenter.
Make a beautiful house for this man, she said.
The carpenter was very clever. He made a very comfortable box for me.
It had windows, a bed, chairs, a table, and a wardrobe.
It was perfect for travelling and for living.
The queen liked me. I always had dinner with her.
She found toys, silver plates, knives, and forks for me, and she cut my food for me.
Every Wednesday, Wednesdays were holidays, the king and queen had lunch together.
The king liked talking to me. He talked about my country and Europe.
He asked about government, laws, religion, and education.
Sometimes he laughed, but he always listened.
Sometimes life in broadening nag was dangerous for a little man.
One day, I opened my window and there were twenty giant wasps outside.
Luckily, I had my sword. They attacked me, so I killed them all one by one.
I kept some wasps dings as souvenirs. I had problems with giant flies too.
I often travelled with the king and queen. Broading nag was a very large country.
European map makers are very bad. They think there is no large country between Japan
and California. When I returned to England, I will correct their maps, I thought.
The mountains in the north of broadening nag are thirty miles high.
People catch fish in the rivers, not in the sea. Why?
Because the fish in the sea are too small. In fact, they are just like ours in England.
There are fifty-one cities in broadening nag and a very large number of villages.
The cities are very beautiful, and there are a lot of royal palaces and temples.
The king began to trust me. He often asked questions about England.
We have two islands, and we have some land in another country, America, I said.
We have a king and a parliament. Parliament has two houses, the House of Lords and the House of Commons.
We also have judges. We pay tax to the government. We have very good soldiers and very good sailors.
Why do you need soldiers? He asked. Soldiers are very expensive. Farmers are better for the country.
We are a very powerful country, I explained. We have very good guns.
We can kill a lot of people in a very short time, so we stay powerful.
I can help you make guns like ours. The king was very angry.
No, he shouted. I love science, and I love art.
My people study mathematics, philosophy, history and poetry.
I think you are horrible people. You make war on other countries for power.
I don't make war on other countries. I don't need big guns to kill other people.
I need farmers to grow food for them. We didn't speak about England again.
Chapter 4. I travel to La Puta. I leave Broading Nag. I return to England. I meet pirates.
I visit the flying island of La Puta.
After two years in Broading Nag, I began to think about my freedom.
It seemed impossible. Everyone was so big, and I was so small.
At the beginning of the third year, the king and queen decided to travel to the south coast.
They wanted to visit their people there. I traveled with them in my now very comfortable box.
Glumdalklitch came too.
At the end of our journey to the south, Glumdalklitch and I were very tired.
I had a cold, and Glumdalklitch was very ill.
I wanted some fresh air, but Glumdalklitch wanted to sleep.
She called a boy.
Take Grildrig to the sea, she said.
I don't feel very well, so I will stay here.
Be very careful. Look after Grildrig well.
Glumdalklitch was very sad. Perhaps she could see into the future.
The boy carried me in my box down to the sea. It took about half an hour.
I was very tired, and I fell asleep.
I don't really know what happened next. Perhaps the boy went swimming.
Perhaps he put the box down just for a minute, but suddenly I woke up.
What's this? Why is the box moving so fast? I thought.
I was scared. I looked out of my window. I could see sky and clouds.
I was now very high in the sky. I was in the claws of a giant bird.
It knows I'm in here. It will eat me, I thought, afraid.
Help! I shouted out of the window. Help!
Suddenly, the box began to fall. It fell down and down. With a splash, it fell into the sea.
In the water, in the box, I thought about poor Glumdalklitch.
I thought about the king and queen. Please don't be angry with Glumdalklitch, I said to myself.
Then I thought about my situation. Will someone rescue me? Will I die in the water here?
After about four scary hours, I heard a noise. It was a ship. Help! Help! I shouted.
Who's there? A man answered in English.
Lemuel Gulliver! I shouted, help me, please!
The ship's carpenter made a hole in the box and I walked out. The sailors were very surprised.
They seemed small to me. Was I back in Lilliput? No. They were the same size as me.
The destination of the ship was England. On the journey, I spent a lot of time with the captain.
I told him about Broddingnag. He didn't believe me.
You're mad, he said. Luckily, I had the wasp sting and some other souvenirs of Broddingnag.
When he saw them, he believed my story.
Write a book about it, he said. Perhaps I will, I answered.
I arrived home on the 3rd of June, 1703, about nine months later.
My wife was very happy to see me. My wife and daughter seemed very small to me.
You will never go to see again, she said. She was wrong.
Ten days later, a man came to my house. His name was William Robinson, and he was the captain of the Hopewell.
He was like a brother to me. He came to visit me often.
One day, he said, I want to go to India. Will you come with me? I need a good ship's doctor.
Yes, I said, I'll be very happy to come with you.
On the 5th of August, 1706, we left England again.
In April, the next year, we arrived in Madras. We stayed there for a few weeks because some sailors were ill.
When we set off again, there was a terrible storm. We didn't know where we were.
On the 10th day, pirates saw our ship. Some of the pirates were Dutch, and some were Japanese.
I spoke Dutch quite well, so said, please take the ship, but don't kill us.
The Japanese pirate was angry.
Put him in a canoe, alone, he said. Let him die at sea.
The pirates took our sailors onto their ship. They put me into a canoe.
I was alone at sea, again.
When I was a long way from the pirate ship, I took out my pocket telescope.
Through it, I saw some small islands.
I sailed towards the first island, but it was very rocky.
I found some eggs, ate them, and slept under a rock.
The next day, I sailed to another island, then another.
On the 5th day, I arrived at the last island.
I found some more eggs. On this island, there was a small cave.
I slept a little. I was quite worried now. I was very tired.
When I die here, I thought.
When I left the cave, it was quite late the next morning.
The sun was hot and the sky was clear.
Suddenly, it went quite dark. I looked up.
There was a large cloud in the sky. But, no, it wasn't a cloud. What was it?
It started to come down. I took out my pocket telescope. I could see people on it.
It was a very large island in the sky.
I was happy to see people, so I waved and waved.
Some people on the island saw me.
The island came down more.
More people on the island in the sky came to look. They waved at me.
The island was now very near to me.
Help me! Help me! I shouted.
The next minute, I saw a seat on a rope.
The seat came down from the island towards me.
I sat on the seat and the people on the island pulled me up.
On the island in the sky, I saw some very strange people.
Their eyes looked in different directions. Their clothes had a lot of symbols on them.
Sons, moons, stars, and musical instruments. They seemed very distracted.
Their servants told them when to speak and when to listen.
The people on the island were very kind. They took me to the royal palace immediately.
The king was also very kind. He sat on a chair in the middle of the room.
There were mathematical instruments all around him.
He asked me some questions, but of course, I didn't understand his language.
Then dinner arrived.
The food was very strange. The lamb was triangular, the bread was conical,
and the sausages looked like musical instruments.
A group of musicians played the music.
I didn't like the music at all. It was terrible.
After dinner, the king sent me away with a man.
He had pens and paper. He was my language teacher.
He taught me the names of the shapes, the moon and stars, and all the musical instruments.
After a few days, I began to understand the language.
The name of the island in the sky is La Puta.
La Puta flies over a larger island under it.
The name of this island is Balnibabi.
The capital city, Lagado, is on Balnibabi.
The houses on La Puta are all very strange. There are no 90 degree angles in the houses.
This is because the La Putans are not practical.
They are interested in mathematics, music and astrology.
The men of La Puta are also very scared. They are afraid that, one day, a falling star will hit their island.
The women of La Puta live a comfortable life, but they are very bored.
The king uses physics to control the movement of La Puta.
He also uses La Puta to control the people of Balnibabi.
Dear reader, the people of Balnibabi are very oppressed.
The king can use La Puta to stop rain and block the sun.
If the people of Balnibabi cause a lot of trouble, the people of La Puta throw rocks at them.
The people on the island of La Puta were kind to me, but they weren't curious about me at all.
I was quite interested in both mathematics and music, but the men were quite boring.
I began to talk to women, children and servants.
The La Puta men were surprised at this, but the women, children and servants talked about more interesting things than the men.
I studied hard, and now I could speak their language very well.
But there was nothing for me here.
After two months on the island, I wanted to leave.
There was one La Puta man I liked. He was a very important lord.
He was very intelligent, very practical and very interested in the world around him.
Everyone said he was stupid.
Why? Because he didn't like La Puta music.
He often came to talk to me in my room.
What's Europe like? What's the legal system in England?
What's Lilliput like? What's Brodynag like? He asked.
One day we talked about travelling.
Could you help me? I asked him.
How? He answered.
Will you talk to the king for me?
I want to leave. I want to travel to Balnibarbi and to other places in the world.
Yes, I'll talk to the king, he promised.
On the 16th of February, I left La Puta.
The king gave me a present. Some money to help me on Balnibarbi.
The island of La Puta went down in the sky. When we were near Balnibarbi, I went down on the seat on the rope.
Chapter 5
I visit strange and wonderful places.
On Balnibarbi, inside the academy, the magical island, I meet Hannibal.
When I reached Balnibarbi, I was very happy. I walked to Legato. I'm sure you remember that this is the capital city.
I had the name of a man to visit in Legato, Lord Munodi. He was a friend of my friend on La Puta.
The man was very happy to meet me. I stayed in his house.
The next morning, he took me to visit the capital. It was about the same size as London.
The houses were very strange and very badly built. The people in the streets walked fast.
They looked a little wild. Their clothes were old.
Then we walked into the countryside. Again, the people were poor. I was surprised because the land was good.
Lord Munodi's house was different from the others. His garden was also more beautiful than the others.
I asked Lord Munodi why.
About 40 years ago, the Leputin government built an academy here in Legato. The academy studies building, agriculture and languages.
The professors have some very strange ideas. They tell the Leputin government their ideas and the government makes stupid laws.
They are not practical. My house is different because I break the laws.
Can I visit the academy? I asked.
Yes. About you must go alone, he answered.
I hate the academy and I will never ever go there. You must take some money with you.
They never have any money for their studies, so they beg from visitors.
The following day, I visited the academy. The dean was very happy to meet me.
The academy was very large with about 500 rooms.
In the first room, there was an old man. He told me about his studies.
I'm working on a very important project. I'm trying to make sunlight from cucumbers.
We take the sunlight out of the cucumbers, put it in a bottle and then we can use it on cold days.
Very interesting, I said. I gave him some money.
I went into another room. The smell was so bad that I left immediately.
In another room, there was a very clever engineer. He had a new way of building houses.
He built the roof first and the walls second. At the end, he built the foundations.
In the next room, there was a man who couldn't see. His job was to mix colors for artists.
He did this by smell and by touch.
I visited a lot of rooms in the academy, but I didn't see any practical ideas.
The dean wanted to show me more rooms on the other side of the academy.
There I visited the school of languages. There were three professors there.
Their job was to improve their language.
What exactly are you doing? I asked one professor.
This is my language machine, he answered. It's making our words shorter.
All words will soon be very, very short.
Very interesting, I said.
My job is more interesting, said the second professor.
There is no need for words in our language. Speaking is very bad for people.
Too much speaking makes people ill.
In my system, we don't need words, we need things.
People will soon communicate by carrying things in their pockets.
For short conversations, you only need a few things.
Of course, for long conversations, you need servants to carry your things.
For very long conversations, you just need a card.
My system has one great advantage. It's a universal language.
You can communicate with people from all over the world.
But my language machine is the best, said the first professor.
No, yours is too complicated, said the second.
I gave them some money and left quickly.
Next, I spent a very short time at the School of Mathematics.
There the scientists wrote formulas on edible paper.
They then ate them immediately.
I now understood that all these professors were mad.
Balnebabi was poor and unhappy because of these professors and their silly ideas.
I decided to leave the academy and Balnebabi as soon as possible.
I wanted to go back to Europe.
The next day, I spoke to Lord Munodi.
I want to go back to England, I said.
I'm not surprised, he answered.
Perhaps I can help.
The King of Lugnag has a very good relationship with the Emperor of Japan.
It must be possible to get from there to Japan and from Japan to England.
Why don't you go to Lugnag? It's a small island and it's quite near.
Thank you, I said. That's a very good idea.
I said goodbye to Lord Munodi and left Lagado.
I traveled to the port of Maldonada.
When I arrived, I spoke to a man at the port.
When's the next ship for Lugnag? I asked.
In five weeks he answered.
I decided to spend the time visiting a different island, Glubdubdrib.
Its other name is the Magical Island.
It's a very small island.
The King of the Magical Island is a magician.
He has a very special power.
He can call ghosts from the past to be his servants.
They can only work for him for 24 hours.
When I arrived at the Magical Island, I went immediately to see the King.
He was very happy to see me and invited me to stay at the Royal Palace.
It was a little strange at first, the servants were always different.
One evening, the King invited me to a special dinner.
After dinner, we talked.
I like you, Galiva. He said, I have an interesting idea.
Do you want to meet some people from the past?
Yes, please. I replied.
Who? Let me think.
Alexander the Great, I answered.
Call him, then he will appear, said the King.
Alexander the Great, I called.
Two seconds later, Alexander appeared.
It was difficult to understand his Greek at first.
Another, said the King.
Soon, Hannibal appeared.
Look! He's crossing the Alps. I shouted.
I then asked to see Caesar and Pompey.
Then the whole Senate of Rome appeared.
Caesar and Brutus came near to me.
I spoke to Brutus, a very fine man.
The next day, I decided to call some more ghosts.
Homer and Aristotle were interesting.
I called Descartes and Gascendi.
Aristotle was pleased to meet them.
Oh dear, I made some mistakes in my philosophy, he said, after a long conversation.
The next day, I called some ghosts from modern history.
They were very disappointing.
I called people from the past and recent past.
It was strange.
All the people from the recent past were very disappointing.
At the end of my stay on the magical island,
I understood more about the problems of my country and the problems of Europe.
It was time for me to leave.
I thanked the King of the magical island very much and went back to Maldonada.
There, I found a ship for Leugnag.
The journey took a month.
It is easy to communicate with the people of Leugnag because many of them speak the language of Balnibabi.
The Leugnagians are very polite, generous people.
They all seem to be very happy.
Soon after I arrived, the King invited me to the royal palace.
I wanted to be polite, too, so I learnt some words in Leugnagian.
When I arrived at the palace, I said these words to the King.
Ickbling Lothrobskuseirombeheob, mashing out Zwimodbalkgufsliob had good lobashed.
He was very pleased.
He invited me to stay in the royal palace.
I stayed for three months.
One day a Leugnagian asked me a strange question.
Would you like to meet any mortal?
What do you mean?
Some people here are immortal. They live forever.
How wonderful, I said.
Yes, I would like to learn from any mortal.
They will teach me a lot about life.
Perhaps I can learn something special.
Unfortunately, the immortals are not nice people.
They are angry, horrible, jealous, miserable, and extremely talkative.
Because they are different from other people, they don't have friends.
They are also very ugly.
They have a strange blue spot on their heads.
The oldest immortal I met was 200 years old.
He was very, very angry and very, very horrible.
I began to understand that the Leugnagians don't like the immortals.
They don't want to live forever.
Perhaps that's why the Leugnagians are so happy.
After three months at the royal palace, I decided to leave.
It was time to go back to England and my family.
The king was sorry.
Stay here, he said. You can work for my government.
I'm sorry, I answered. I must go home. I must see my family again.
The king was very generous. He gave me some gold and a beautiful red diamond.
In early May, I left Leugnag. I arrived in Japan two weeks later.
In Japan, I began to look for a ship to take me to Europe.
It was very difficult to find a ship.
After a few weeks, I found a Dutch ship. I spoke to the captain.
Where are you from? He asked.
Holland, I answered.
The Dutch and the English weren't good friends at this time. It was better to be Dutch.
Luckily, I knew the Dutch language very well.
Captain Theodoras Van Groot was happy to take me.
He needed a ship's doctor. I invented some stories about my family in Galdaland.
No one knew I was English.
In June, we finally left Japan.
The journey was long, but there were no adventures.
We stopped at the Cape of Good Hope.
This time, we only stayed for two days because the weather was good.
We got fresh water and sailed away immediately.
On the 6th of April, 1710, we arrived at Amsterdam.
I immediately found another boat from Amsterdam to England.
Four days later, I was home.
My wife was very happy to see me. She was very well, and so were my children.
I stayed at home in England for five very happy months.
Then, I started to think about traveling again.
I spoke to some friends.
Didn't you sail on the adventure a few years ago?
One of them said, yes, why?
Well, they need a new captain. Why don't you speak to the owner?
I traveled to Portsmouth to meet the owner of the adventure.
After many years as a ship's doctor, I understood navigation very well.
It was time for me to become the captain of a ship.
The owner was happy. He remembered me from before.
The job is yours, he said.
I was very pleased. Now, I needed a ship's doctor.
I found a young man. He was very good at his job.
Then, I said goodbye to my wife and children.
We left Portsmouth on the 7th of September, 1710.
Our destination? The South Seas. Again.